The key, integrating diverse data.
Whatever your big data application is, and
the types of big data you are using
the real value will come from integrating
different types of data sources,
and analyzing them at scale.
So how do we start getting this value?
Sometimes, all it takes,
is looking at the data you already
collect in a different way.
And it can mean a big difference
in your return on investment.
This new story from June 2015
mentions that Carnival Cruises
is using structured and unstructured
data from a variety of sources.
Carnival turns it into profit
using price optimization
techniques on the integrated data.
For you to achieve such a success story,
you will need to include data
integration into your big data practice.
However, there are some unique challenges
when attempting to integrate these
diverse data sources and
scaling the solutions.
Course Two on on the specialization,
we'll teach you more about these issues.
But let's take a moment to define why
effect of data integration is useful?
Data integration means bringing
together data from diverse sources and
turning them into coherent and
more useful information.
We also call this knowledge.
The main objective here is taming or
more technically managing data and
turning it into something you can
make use of programmatically.
A data integration process
involves many parts.
It starts with discovering,
accessing, and monitoring data and
continues with modeling and transforming
data from a variety of sources.
But why do we need data
integration in the first place?
Let's start by focusing on
differences between big data sets
coming from different sources.
You might have flat file formatted data,
relational database data,
data encoded in XML or JSON,
both common for internet generated data.
These different formats and
models are useful
because they are designed to express
different data in unique ways.
In a way, different data formats and
models make big data more useful and
more challenging all at the same time.
When you integrate data in different
formats, you make the final
product richer in the number of
features you describe the data with.
For example,
by integrating environmental sensor and
camera data with geographical
information system data, such as in
my wildfire prediction application,
I can use the spacial data capabilities
with non-spacial data to more
accurately run fire simulations.
In the past, although we were able
to see the images of the fire
from mountain top cameras,
just like this image, we were still
not able to tell what the exact
location of the fire is automatically.
Now, when a fire is detected
from a mountain top camera,
viewsheds are used to estimate
the location of the fire.
This location information can
be fed into the fire simulator
as early as it's detected
to predict the size and
location of the fire in the next
hour more accurately and faster.
Similarly, I can use real time
data with eye curve data sets, and
use them all together.
Additionally, by bringing
the data together, and
providing programmable access to it, I'm
now making each data set more accessible.
Moreover, integration of
diverse datasets significantly
reduces the overall data complexity
in my data-driven product.
The data becomes more available for
use and unified as a system of its own.
One advantage of such an integration
is not often mentioned.
Such a streamlined and
integrated data system
can increase the collaboration between
different parts of your data systems.
Each part can now clearly see
how their data is integrated
into the overall system.
Including the user scenarios and the
security and privacy processes around it.
Overall by integrating diverse data
streams you add value to your big data and
improve your business even
before you start analyzing it.
Next, we will focus on the dimensions
of the scalability and
discuss how we can start tackling
some of these challenges.